# Masters-thesis
Here you find my Master's thesis (in Portuguese) entitled : Estudo do Comportamento da Borracha Natural e da Borracha de Estireno-Butadieno no Teste de Fadiga De Mattia.
It´s abstract in english is:
Rubber fatigue prediction is a key issue for the automobilistic and aerospatial industries. In the case of tire industry, most of the failure cases are due to fatigue. In this work, the fatigue resistance in flexing loading was studied using four recipes, with unfilled and filled NR, and unfilled and filled SBR. First of all, they were characterized using uniaxial traction tests according to ASTM D412-98a to input a Finite Element Analysis (FEA) hiperelastic model and then the same recipes were submitted to flexing cyclic loading in the De Mattia tester using a modified version of the standard ASTM method ASTM D813-07. After that, their test results were analyzed and compared to FEA model of the De Mattia test. Proposals of hexahedric and tetrahedric mesh elements were examined. Different approaches regarding analysis and modeling of crack nucleation and propagation, such as Strain Energy Density, Crack Energy Density and J Integral were commented and used as analysis tools in order to better understand the phenomenon of flexing fatigue failure in the De Mattia test. Finally, it´s shown that under certain conditions, the De Mattia test can give reliable results when comparing different materials. However, it´s also shown that in a given set of conditions the De Mattia test has some limitations regarding materials evaluation.

